- While it's hard to predict exactly
what an employer might be looking
for in an entry level candidate,
there are a few common technical skills
that appear most frequently in job postings.
Having awareness of these skills will allow you
to reinforce them so that you can feel confident
placing them on your resume and speaking
to them in an interview.
So let's talk through a few
of these essential skills for entry level developers.
First, most companies will want to see
that you have experience
with at least one popular programming language.
So make sure you're familiar with one
of the programming languages we discussed earlier.
On top of that,
you'll be expected to understand different data structures
and algorithms that would typically be covered
in a computer science degree.
Here, you'll want to focus
on the most commonly used data structures,
like arrays, link lists, stacks, queues, maps, and trees.
And for algorithms,
I would recommend knowing at least two sorting algorithms,
probably merge sort and quicksort,
along with a binary search algorithm
for a binary search tree.
You might also be expected to know one
or more programming styles.
The most common is object oriented programming,
which uses objects to model and solve problems.
If you're also familiar with functional programming,
that will be to your advantage.
It's a style of programming that focuses less
on defining a sequence of statements
and more on declaring functions
that are applied to a set of values.
Companies will also expect you to be familiar
with the tools used to write and store source code.
So make sure you're comfortable
with using an integrated development environment, or IDE,
like Visual Studio, VS Code,
or Eclipse.
When it comes
to source control,
Git is pretty much the defacto standard across
the industry for teams collaborating
on the source code for a project.
So make sure it's a tool in your toolbox.
Those are really the core of what companies look
for, but there are some skills that can make you stand out.
One of those is the knowledge
of a framework for one of the popular programming languages.
A framework has prebuilt libraries
and components that you can work
with to solve common programming problems,
like handling web requests and storing data
in a database.
For C# developers,
that's .NET,
and for Java, it's the Spring Framework.
Working with databases is another skill
that companies value.
So you'll want to have an understanding
of how relational databases work
and how to query them using SQL,
the structured query language.
If you're familiar with document databases
like MongoDB,
that's also going to be to your advantage.
When it comes
to what you should know as a developer,
we've dialed it up a notch in this lesson,
and you might feel little overwhelmed.
It comes with being a developer.
You'll be expected to learn new technologies
as they come along,
and it will be a consistent part of your career.
That's why it's important to be in it for the right reasons.
For those that are passionate about technology,
their curiosity is a natural part of their progression,
and they're excited to learn new skills.